a recent government accountability study revealed that eighty percent of the drugs have withdrawn from the market are due to side effects some women. so let's think about that from and why are we discovering side effects on women only after a drug has been released to the market. do you know that it takes years for a drug to go from an idea to being tested on cells in a laboratory to the animal studies to in clinical trials on humans finally to go through a regulatory approval process to be available for your doctor to prescribe. to you. not to mention the millions and billions of dollars of funding it takes to go through that process. so why are we discovering an acceptable side effects on half the population after that has come true. what's happening what turns out that those cells used in that laboratory your mail selves. and the animals used in the animal studies were male animals and the clinical trials have been performed almost exclusively on man. how is it that the male model became our framework for medical research let's look at an example that has been popularized in the media and it has to do with a sleep aid indian in was released on the market over twenty years ago. and sense than hundreds of millions of prescriptions have been written in primarily to women because women suffer more sleep disorders the man. but just this past year the food and drug administration recommended cutting the dose and half are women only. because they just realize that women metabolize the drug at a slower rate than men. causing them to wake up in the morning with more the active drug in their system. and then their drowsy and they're getting behind the wheel of the car and there are risks for motor vehicle accidents. no i can't help but think as an emergency physician how many of that my patients that i have cared for over the years one valvo in a motor vehicle accident possibly could have been prevented if this type of analysis was performed and acted upon twenty years ago. this drug was first released. how many other things need to be analyzed by gender. what else are we missing.